docs/index.md, before:

# Welcome to the LINC Documentation

<img
src="./img/linc.logo.color+white.png"
alt="linc_banner"
style="width: 75%; height: auto; display: block; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto;"/>

The center for [Large-scale Imaging of Neural Circuits (LINC)](https://connects.mgh.harvard.edu/)
 (PIs: Haber, Hillman, Yendiki) is funded by the
 [NIH BRAIN Initiative CONNECTS program](https://www.ninds.nih.gov/news-events/highlights-announcements/nih-brain-initiative-launches-projects-develop-innovative-technologies-map-brain-incredible-detail).
Its goal is to develop novel technologies for imaging brain connections down to 
the microscopic scale, and deploy these technologies to image 
cortico-subcortical projections that are relevant to deep brain stimulation for 
motor and psychiatric disorders.

## About this doc

The LINC documentation is meant to share information across the LINC project investigators.  If you are new to the LINC project, you can start on the [Upload data](upload.md) page for a description of how to interact with the LINC data sharing platform.

## Quick Links

- [LINC Homepage](https://connects.mgh.harvard.edu/)
- [LINC Data Sharing Platform](https://lincbrain.org/)
- [LINC Project Code on GitHub](https://github.com/lincbrain)

## Support

For questions, bug reports, and feature requests, please:

- File an issue on the relevant [GitHub repository](https://github.com/lincbrain)
- Reach out on the [LINC Slack](https://mit-lincbrain.slack.com/)
- Send an email to kabi@mit.edu

Commit message:

Add links to DANDI documentation

docs/index.md, after:

# Welcome to the LINC Documentation

<img
src="./img/linc.logo.color+white.png"
alt="linc_banner"
style="width: 75%; height: auto; display: block; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto;"/>

The center for [Large-scale Imaging of Neural Circuits (LINC)](https://connects.mgh.harvard.edu/)
 (PIs: Haber, Hillman, Yendiki) is funded by the
 [NIH BRAIN Initiative CONNECTS program](https://www.ninds.nih.gov/news-events/highlights-announcements/nih-brain-initiative-launches-projects-develop-innovative-technologies-map-brain-incredible-detail).
Its goal is to develop novel technologies for imaging brain connections down to 
the microscopic scale, and deploy these technologies to image 
cortico-subcortical projections that are relevant to deep brain stimulation for 
motor and psychiatric disorders.

## About this doc

The LINC documentation is meant to share information across the LINC project investigators.  If you are new to the LINC project, you can start on the [Upload data](upload.md) page for a description of how to interact with the LINC data sharing platform.

Since the LINC infrastructure is a fork of the DANDI Archive, please refer to the [DANDI Docs](https://www.dandiarchive.org/handbook) for comprehensive documentation (and in the example commands replace `dandi` with `lincbrain`).

## Quick Links

- [LINC Homepage](https://connects.mgh.harvard.edu/)
- [LINC Data Sharing Platform](https://lincbrain.org/)
- [LINC Project Code on GitHub](https://github.com/lincbrain)

## Support

For questions, bug reports, and feature requests, please:

- File an issue on the relevant [GitHub repository](https://github.com/lincbrain)
- Reach out on the [LINC Slack](https://mit-lincbrain.slack.com/)
- Send an email to kabi@mit.edu
